SFK - The Swiss File Knife Multi Function Tool.
Release 1.9.3 Base/XD Revision 4 of Dec  8 2018.
StahlWorks Technologies, http://stahlworks.com/
Distributed for free under the BSD License, without any warranty.

type "sfk commandname" for help on any of the following.
some commands require to add "-help" for the help text.

   file system
      sfk list       - list directory tree contents.
                       list latest, oldest or biggest files.
                       list directory differences.
                       list zip jar tar gz bz2 contents.
      sfk filefind   - find files by filename
      sfk treesize   - show directory size statistics
      sfk copy       - copy directory trees additively
      sfk sync       - mirror tree content with deletion
      sfk rename     - flexible multi file rename
      sfk partcopy   - copy part from a file into another one
      sfk mkdir      - create directory tree
      sfk delete     - delete files and folders
      sfk deltree    - delete whole directory tree
      sfk deblank    - remove blanks in filenames
      sfk space [-h] - tell total and free size of volume
      sfk filetime   - tell times of a file
      sfk touch      - change times of a file
      sfk index      - create index file(s) for fast lookup
      sfk name       - lookup file names using index files
      sfk fixfile    - change bad filenames and file times
      sfk setbytes   - set bytes at offset within a file
   
   compression
      sfk zip        - create zip file from folder
      sfk zipto      - zip selected file list
      sfk unzip      - list or extract zip file
      sfk checkzip   - verify zip file content
   
   conversion
      sfk lf-to-crlf - convert from LF to CRLF line endings
      sfk crlf-to-lf - convert from CRLF to LF line endings
      sfk detab      - convert TAB characters to spaces
      sfk entab      - convert groups of spaces to TAB chars
      sfk scantab    - list files containing TAB characters
      sfk split      - split large files into smaller ones
      sfk join       - join small files into a large one
      sfk csvtotab   - convert .csv data to tab separated
      sfk tabtocsv   - convert tab separated to .csv format
      sfk encode     - convert data to base64 or hex format
      sfk decode     - decode base64, hex or url format
      sfk wtoa       - convert wide chars to Ansi
      sfk wtou       - convert wide chars to UTF-8
      sfk utoa       - convert UTF-8 text to Ansi
      sfk hexdump    - create hexdump from a binary file
      sfk hextobin   - convert hex data to binary
      sfk hex        - convert decimal number(s) to hex
      sfk dec        - convert hex number(s) to decimal
      sfk chars      - print chars for a list of codes
      sfk bin-to-src - convert binary to source code
   
   text processing
      sfk filter     - search, filter and replace text data
      sfk replace    - replace words in binary and text files
      sfk xed        - edit stream text using sfk expressions
      sfk xex        - extract from stream text using expressions
      sfk xreplace   - XE: replace in files using sfk expressions
      sfk run        - run external command on all files of a folder
      sfk runloop    - run a command n times in a loop
      sfk printloop  - print some text many times
      sfk load       - load file content for further processing
      sfk perline    - run sfk command(s) per input text line
      sfk head       - print first lines of a file
      sfk tail       - print last lines of a file
      sfk snapto     - join many text files into one file
      sfk addhead    - insert string at start of text lines
      sfk addtail    - append string at end of text lines
      sfk joinlines  - join text lines split by email reformatting
      sfk strings    - extract strings from a binary file
      sfk sort       - sort text lines produced by another command
      sfk count      - count text lines, filter identical lines
      sfk difflines  - show text lines differing between files
      sfk linelen    - tell length of string(s)
   
   search and compare
      sfk xfind      - search in text and binary files using
                       wildcards and simple expressions
      sfk xtext      - search in text files only
      sfk xhexfind   - search with hexdump output
      sfk extract    - extract data from text and binary
      sfk find       - search static text, without wildcards
      sfk hexfind    - search static binary data
      sfk md5gento   - create list of md5 checksums over files
      sfk md5check   - verify list of md5 checksums over files
      sfk md5        - calc md5 over a file, compare two files
      sfk pathfind   - search PATH for location of a command
      sfk reflist    - list fuzzy references between files
      sfk deplist    - list fuzzy dependencies between files
      sfk dupfind    - find duplicate files by content
   
   networking
      sfk httpserv   - run an instant HTTP server.
                       type "sfk httpserv -help" for help.
      sfk ftpserv    - run an instant FTP server
                       type "sfk ftpserv -help" for help.
      sfk ftp        - instant FTP client
      sfk web        - send HTTP request to a server
      sfk wget       - download HTTP file from the web
      sfk tcpdump    - print TCP conversation between programs
      sfk udpdump    - print incoming UDP requests
      sfk udpsend    - send UDP requests
      sfk ip         - tell own machine's IP address(es).
                       type "sfk ip -help" for help.
      sfk netlog     - send text outputs to network,
                       and/or file, and/or terminal
      sfk fromnet -h - receive and print network text
      sfk ping       - ping multiple machines in one go
   
   scripting
      sfk help chain - how to combine multiple commands
      sfk script     - run many sfk commands in a script file
      sfk label      - define starting points within a script
      sfk call       - call a sub function at a label
      sfk echo       - print (coloured) text to terminal
      sfk color      - change text color of terminal
      sfk setvar     - put text into an sfk variable
      sfk storetext  - store text in memory for later use
      sfk alias      - create command from other commands
      sfk mkcd       - create command to reenter directory
      sfk sleep      - delay execution for milliseconds
      sfk pause      - wait for user input
      sfk stop       - stop sfk script execution
      sfk tee        - split command output in two streams
      sfk tofile     - save command output to a file
      sfk toterm     - flush command output to terminal
      sfk for        - repeat commands many times
      sfk loop       - repeat execution of all commands
      sfk cd         - change directory within a script
      sfk getcwd     - print the current working directory
      sfk require    - compare version text
      sfk time [-h]  - print current date and time
   
   development
      sfk bin-to-src - convert binary data to source code
      sfk make-random-file - create file with random data
      sfk fuzz       - change file at random, for testing
      sfk sample     - print example code for programming
      sfk patch      - change text files through a script
      sfk inst       - instrument c++ with tracing calls
   
   diverse
      sfk status     - send colored status to the SFKTray
                       Windows GUI utility for display
      sfk calc       - do a simple instant calculation
      sfk random     - create a random number
      sfk prompt     - ask for user input
      sfk number     - print number in diverse formats
      sfk xmlform    - reformat xml for easy viewing
      sfk media      - cut video and binary files
      sfk view       - show results in a GUI tool
      sfk toclip     - copy command output to clipboard
      sfk fromclip   - read text from clipboard
      sfk env        - search environment variables
      sfk version    - show version of a binary file
      sfk ascii      - list Ansi codepage characters
      sfk ascii -dos - list OEM  codepage characters
      sfk spell      - phonetic spelling for telephone
      sfk cmd        - print an example command
      sfk data       - create random test data
      sfk ruler      - measure console text width
      sfk license    - print the SFK license text
      sfk update     - check for SFK updates
   
   help by subject
      sfk help select   - how dirs and files are selected in sfk
      sfk help options  - general options reference
      sfk help patterns - wildcards and text patterns within sfk
      sfk help chain    - how to combine (chain) multiple commands
      sfk help var      - how to use sfk variables and parameters
      sfk samp          - example scripts on sfk use and for
                          http web access automation
      sfk help shell    - how to optimize the windows command prompt
      sfk help chars    - about locale specific characters
      sfk help nocase   - about case insensitive search
      sfk help unicode  - about unicode file reading support
      sfk help colors   - how to change result colors
      sfk help compile  - how to compile sfk on any linux system
   
   advanced productivity tools
      sfk dview     - about Depeche View, the world's fastest
                      text file and source code browser
      sfk xe        - about SFK XE, with fast flexible replace
                      and direct zip/tar file search
      sfk status    - about SFKTray, to display up to 9 script
                      status lights in your Windows system tray
   
   All tree walking commands support file selection this way:

   1. short format with ONE directory tree and MANY file name patterns:
      src1dir .cpp .hpp .xml bigbar !footmp
   2. short format with a list of explicite file names:
      letter1.txt revenues9.xls report3\turnover5.ppt
   3. long format with MANY dir trees and file masks PER dir tree:
      -dir src1 src2 !src\save -file foosys .cpp -dir bin5 -file .exe

   For detailed help on file selection, type "sfk help select".

   * and ? wildcards are supported within filenames. "foo" is interpreted
   as "*foo*", so you can leave out * completely to search a part of a name.
   For name start comparison, say "\foo" (finds foo.txt but not anyfoo.txt).

   When you supply a directory name, by default this means "take all files".

      sfk list mydir                lists ALL  files of mydir, no * needed.
      sfk list mydir .cpp .hpp      lists SOME files of mydir, by extension.
      sfk list mydir !.cfg          lists all  files of mydir  EXCEPT .cfg

   general options:
      -tracesel  tells in detail which files and/or directories are included
                 or excluded, and why (due to which user-supplied mask).
      -nosub     do not process files within subdirectories.
      -nocol     before any command switches off color output.
      -quiet     or -nohead shows less output on some commands.
      -hidden    includes hidden and system files and dirs.
      For detailed help on all options, type "sfk help options".

   configure your windows CMD.exe properly.
      select many display columns, 3000 lines for scrollback
      and copy/paste of displayed text. "sfk help shell" for more.

   beware of Shell Command Characters.
      parameters containing spaces or characters <>|!&?* must be sur-
      rounded by quotes "". type "sfk filter" for details and examples.

   beware of Automated Data Processing on different machines.
      if you write scripts for distribution on many Windows machines
      they may behave different, depending on the system codepage.
      to avoid this use -isochars. for details see: sfk help nocase

   WRONG COLORS? Use one of:
      set SFK_COLORS=on             for generic colors
      set SFK_COLORS=theme:black    for DARK    backgrounds
      set SFK_COLORS=theme:white    for BRIGHT  backgrounds
      see also "sfk help colors"

   type "sfk ask word1 word2 ..."   to search ALL help text for words.
   type "sfk dumphelp"              to print  ALL help text.

      +---------------------------------------------------------+ 
      | Get the Five Dollar SFK Book: type "sfk book" for more. | 
      |---------------------------------------------------------| 
      |      Browse all text of a folder fast: sfk dview        | 
      +---------------------------------------------------------+ 
sfk dupfind -dir anydir [-file .ext1 .ext2]

   find and list duplicate files, just by file content,
   independent from filename. searches for files with same
   size and then compares contents by md5 checksums.

   options
      -diffdirs    list only duplicates residing in different
                   root directories. this option requires that
                   you specify at least two dirs after -dir.
      -listorg     list all original filenames,
                   leave out any duplicate filenames.
      -minsize=n   compare only files with size >= n.
                   examples for n are:
                      5m = 5000000 bytes (5 mbytes)
                    100k =  100000 bytes (5 kbytes)
                      1M = 1048576 bytes (2<<20 bytes)
                   9000b =    9000 bytes

   command chaining
      - by default, this command passes the names
        of found duplicate files to the next command.

      - option -listorg does the opposite: it passes
        only original filenames, but no duplicates,
        to the next chain command.

   NOTE:
      if identical files are found, the decision what is listed
      as "original" or "duplicate" is currently based on the
      order in the file system: the file found first is listed as
      "original". check carefully if this is what you think,
      before cleaning up any duplicates.

   web reference
      http://stahlworks.com/sfk-dupfind

   examples
      sfk dupfind .
         find all duplicates within the current directory tree.

      sfk dupfind -dir docs1 docs2 docs3
         find all dups across and within the given directories.

      sfk dupfind -diffdir -dir docs1 docs2 docs3
         find dups between docs1/docs2, docs2/docs3, docs1/docs3,
         but does NOT list dups within the same root directory.

      sfk dupfind docs .doc +del
         find all duplicate .doc files, within the docs
         directory tree, and delete them.

      sfk dupfind -listorg docs .doc +run "copy $file docs2"
         copy all .doc files from docs to docs2,
         but leave out any duplicate files.

      sfk dupfind -dir pic1 -dir pic2 -dir pic3
         find duplicates across three different directory trees.
         specifying multiple -dirs is also a way of influencing
         the result order; if a file is found both in pic1 and pic3,
         the file from pic1 will be listed as original, the other one
         as the duplicate.

      sfk sel -dir pic1 pic2 pic3 -file .jpg +dup -minsize=1m
         similar to the above, this example uses command chaining:
         list all .jpg files from the pic directories, then pass
         this to the dupfind command, also filtering by size.
